[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega's a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> Come home to themselves.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths lead--
>> A house with many rooms.
>> A ticket into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirits.
>> A sense of what it would be
like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment.
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You always go
into the desert.
>> It's hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> Tool for unity.
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
About five years ago, I
lived on the Rosebud Sioux
Indian reservation
with my ex-husband,
and this is my story.
I'm of French, Mohawk,
and Abenaki descent,
and I met my ex-husband at
a powwow in Massachusetts,
married him, and
moved out to Rosebud.
When I married Jim, I thought
I was marrying a older
spiritual person, and
I was soon to find out
that wasn't the case.
I spent almost two
years of physical abuse.
The abuse was so severe
that he would tell me
when I could answer questions.
He basically destroyed
any past life experience--
you know, my families--
and he tried to kill
me several times.
And my saving grace was
the Lakota religion.
His brother, Florentine, one
night went to go to ceremony.
He's a medicine man.
And I had two children
with me at the time.
And my children and I
couldn't go to the ceremony,
but Florentine said that
everybody would pray for us.
And about 3 o'clock
in the morning,
I was laying on the couch,
and I heard the door open.
And I looked and
the door was closed.
And then I looked at the clock.
It was 3:01.
And I felt the circle of
cold air blowing my face,
and I was very scared, so
scared that I couldn't yell
or anything.
And there was no one
there except my children.
And my hair was blowing back.
And then I felt like someone's
warm hand touched my head,
and I felt warm all the
way down to my feet.
And then a voice
inside my head said,
Jim will go back to where he
came from, and you will be OK,
but you will be hurt some more.
By the time I woke
up in the morning,
I thought that I had
imagined the whole thing.
Florentine came home
about 7 o'clock,
and I went to greet him.
And he took my hair, and
he said, what happened?
It looks like you rode
in the back of a pickup.
And then I realized that
I hadn't dreamt that.
And he said, a lot of
people pray for you tonight.
And about 3 o'clock, Elmer
sent the spirits out to check
on the people that
were prayed for.
Did you notice anything?
And that was kind of when
my life turned around,
when I believed that there
was a spiritual world.
The abuse continued, but right
before his big plan to kill me,
the federal agents came in.
He was hauled off to
prison, and I found out
that he had spent
17 years in prison.
So, in essence, the
spirits were right
that he did go back
to where he came from.
He came from
prison, and now he's
in a federal prison for life.
I knew that he
served time, but what
I was told by the New
Hampshire parole commission
was that he was framed.
And Jim said that he
never killed anybody,
and I believe that to be true.
I couldn't believe that someone
could commit the brutal murder
that he did.
But after they hauled
him off to Sioux Falls,
I was actually able to go
in and read that whole case.
And there were
family witnesses that
came through to verify that they
saw him murder his first wife.
From that point on, the
Lakota women and medicine man
and his wife on the
reservation helped me
with my own spiritual
healing, because I have
post-traumatic stress disorder.
[SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
I have nightmares of one time
Jim grabbed the back of my head
and threw my head
through a glass table.
And I don't know
what triggers it,
but it's getting better
as the years pass.
And I was lucky that I was
given a pipe to pray with.
And I pray for healing, and
I also pray for clarity.
And one of the
things, when I pray, I
say [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
and that's
like please give me
clarity and understanding.
I was given a
chanunpa to pray with,
and life is really good now.
I moved back home, but
I pray with my pipe.
And I still remember
those connections
with the Lakota people.
And that's how I worship now.
I think this story
is good too tell
for women who are
in a situation,
that you can pray and
get through anything.
And I truly believe in calling
in the spirits of the four
direction and getting those
spirits or angels, whatever
you want to call
them, to work for you.
Back five or six years ago,
I was a naive little girl
from Vermont and couldn't
imagine anybody ever killing
anybody.
And I was very linear
in my thinking.
I didn't believe
in a spirit world.
I didn't believe in angels.
And after my experiences
on the Rosebud
and the continued experiences
in my own spirituality,
I know that there are
angels or spirits, however
way you want to say it, that
look over me and are beside me.
And that you can call
on them to help you when
you're feeling really weak.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And I also know that if it
wasn't for the angels and all
the prayers of
the Lakota people,
I wouldn't be on my
healing journey now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I was little, the way
I would see things was a bit
different than other people.
I would see auras
around people, which
I didn't know what that was.
But I thought that everyone
saw people glowing.
You know, I'd walk into the
room, and everybody glowed.
Or if someone was angry
or having a fight,
I would see a mass of energy
going through the room.
And I can remember feeling--
when I would see these things,
I thought, oh, my god, it's
an evil spirit or something.
Because I was brought up in
a very severely Catholic kind
of family, where we did
the rosary every night,
church every day, and it was
the major monster God scene.
So I really felt--
I would say I felt terrified
most of my life, just terrified
of everything.
[RHYTHMIC DRUMMING]
What I was perceiving,
other people weren't.
And so there was no
map for me to follow.
There was no one for
me to reflect off
to or feel supported by.
And so that left knee in
that place of feeling alone.
I became very quiet
for a while, until I
started to tell more about
what I was seeing still,
because it never stopped.
I had an experience going to a
very orthodox religious church,
and they said I was evil.
They said I shouldn't
know what I know.
see what I see.
So I closed down more.
They brought me to the
medical profession.
The medical profession said,
well, let's do CAT scans.
Let's shoot dye.
Let's see if we can find tumors.
Let's look.
So it was test, test, test.
You know, I started to feel more
and more just like an object,
that I didn't belong.
I was, I could just
say, terrified.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So they sent me
to the psych ward.
And then once at the psych ward,
they didn't know what to do,
because I did a great job on the
block test, on all the tests.
And they couldn't quite get
it, but they thought, well,
maybe let's give her some--
you know, put her on something.
So they started putting
labels on me there.
And so I started to
sort of believe it.
I also thought,
well, if what I'm
seeing is really true, if I'm
really seeing people glow,
if I'm seeing thought forms,
I'm seeing like little entity
things at different times,
I was preferring there
be something wrong with me.
Because then, at least,
I fit in somewhere.
I had a label that fit.
When I was 15, my sisters,
two of my sisters, drowned.
It was my younger sister.
She was nine.
And then my older
sister, who was--
she was about 21.
And we had gone to Sicily.
It was our whole family,
except for my father
and another sister who
lives in Guatemala.
So we went to Sicily to
visit, and we were going down
to the ocean to swim, because we
were all really good swimmers.
And I had a feeling.
Something said, you know,
I'd rather stay on dry land.
I just had those senses, anyway.
But we went down,
and we went swimming.
My little sister was
walking along the beach,
and the undertow took her out.
My older sister went in.
And myself and my two brothers
went in and got shot out again.
And then, by this time,
other people grabbed us.
And so it was my sister,
my little sister,
out there and my older sister.
My sisters drowned.
I couldn't do
anything, just watched.
And at that point, it was a real
powerful turning point for me
at that time.
That was the time I
decided I wanted to live.
Because before
that, I was between.
And I think that's a
lot about why I fought
inside myself to keep going.
Because in what happened
with them and their deaths,
somehow it clicked,
and I want to live.
And I kept going.
[RHYTHMIC DRUMMING]
And finally, a brochure came
do the math for Barbara Brennan
and Pat Rodegast in Phoenix.
And I had no idea who they were.
I didn't know what
that world was about.
But something, the impulse
inside, said, you have to go.
You have to go.
And so I did.
And at this point, what
I did was meet Barbara,
and she told me her story.
She let me know I was
psychic, I was clairvoyant,
I wasn't crazy.
And so that that's where my
world started to shift around.
I studied with her
for four years.
And it's really the time I
call my nervous breakthrough,
because it's where everything,
all sense of who I thought I
was, who they told
me I was, I wasn't.
What I do now is I work
as an energy therapist.
I used to dance
professionally, so I
take the movement and the energy
work and I put that together
and teach channeling
classes, which is just
about getting people in
touch with their inner knower
and, actually, just
their god selves.
And just remembering
who they are
and just having that sense
of empowerment in the world.
I never thought I'd ever
be doing what I'm doing.
It was not in the plans.
When I was little,
I never thought, oh,
that's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to grow
up, and I'm going
to be a healer and work with
energy and that kind of thing.
I was sort of in this abyss,
and I had to restructure myself.
And still, I'm still
doing it, you know.
It's like a good 20 years later.
And I hope that I
keep restructuring
that, I keep remaining
fluid enough to do that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think it was 1968, I was
in the county jail out in Santa
Rita, Alameda County Jail.
And I was the lead man
on a mob crew out there.
And my job was to see
that people mop the dining
hall at the end of
each meal and also
to see that no one walked
on it until it was dry.
So I looked up and I saw
this big, tall white guy
walking across the floor.
And I just immediately
assumed that one of the guards
had sent him to do
that to challenge me.
I assumed that he was from the
Aryan brotherhood or Nazi party
or whatever, because they
generally would pit us
against each other that way.
So when I saw him
walking across the floor,
I immediately knew
that it was trouble.
I ran over and I challenged him.
And he kind of looked at me
really puzzled and said, well,
where else am I going to walk?
You know, what are my options?
The floor, the
ceiling, or the walls?
And he kind of shrugged.
And I had this flash of anger.
I just immediately said,
let's take it to the mop room.
So we get into the mop
room, and I'm standing down.
But there was just something,
I don't know it was,
that made me ask his name.
He said Mario.
I still wasn't sure
what I was going to do
or how this was
going to play out.
I was in a very defensive
posture, ready to pounce.
Then, he asked me my name.
And I said, Trustan.
I thought, darn.
I said, hey, man,
they called me Touche.
And this dude grabbed me,
grabbed me by each shoulder,
looked me in the eyes,
and said, Trustan?
Well, that's a beautiful name.
I'd like to call you Trustan.
Just really threw
me off balance.
I mean, it didn't seem
like the kind of thing
that somebody who was
intending to harm me would do.
So I took a closer look,
and just something about him
was familiar.
And I said, Mario?
Mario?
Are you Mario Savio?
And he said, yeah.
Somebody has to be.
And actually, when we
left the mop room, I mean,
I obviously didn't hit
him or beat him up.
When we left the mop room,
the floor was still wet,
and we both walked on
the floor together.
And so I started talking to him.
He asked me how could he
help me, what was my problem.
He had no idea that I had
asked him into the mop room
to beat him up, or at
least to fight him.
And from that day
on, I don't think
my life has been the same.
I was in for attempted
murder, and Mario was in
because of his leadership
and the free speech movement.
I had grown up in Louisiana, and
I had relatives in Mississippi.
And the one thing that had
impressed me about Mario when
I first read about him was
his activities in Mississippi
as part of the Freedom Rides
and the Freedom Summers.
So I felt an affinity to him.
And obviously, I felt ashamed
that I had ever challenged him.
At the time, I
didn't realize it,
but it was the beginning
of a lifelong friendship.
After I was released,
I became homeless,
and I moved into his
home with his family.
And that ended up being--
I ended up living with
him and his family
for approximately
3 and 1/2 years.
And I had a seventh
grade education.
He said, well,
you're not working.
Why don't you start auditing
classes at UC Berkeley?
I didn't think I
would understand them.
He got the books for me.
I started auditing physics
classes, history classes.
And from that, I decided
to go back and get my GED,
and now I have college classes.
From meeting Mario
Savio, I would
say that everything in my
life has been different.
I certainly have more of
an interest in other people
who are in
downtrodden positions.
If I hear about someone
on the radio who
has a problem or something's
going wrong in their lives,
I don't hesitate to
write to them, if I
can find out where they are.
I have a very strong interest in
the women political prisoners.
I write to a woman,
Marilyn Buck,
who's out at the Federal
Correctional Institution
in Dublin.
She's a political prisoner.
I have more of an
interest in that than I do
making money or being famous.
I think Mario set
a good example,
just in the way that he dealt
with me in that mop room.
My friendship with him
didn't end at his death.
I'm an organic gardener,
and I made a commitment,
after Mario's death, that I
would take care of his family's
garden until I died.
I was really proud that
I was able to speak
at the big memorial in Berkeley.
If I hadn't met Mario, I
would probably be dead by now,
because I was a bully.
I was vicious.
I was always trying to make
sure that I got the upper hand
and got my way.
I'd do anything to get my way.
And everyone else
that I knew that I
was close with from that
era, they are all dead.
I suppose the other option
is that I'd probably
be on death row.
But I certainly wouldn't
be live in a rewarding life
and having a good relationships
that I'm having now.
If I was alive, someone
would be after me.
And certainly,
the type of people
I know now, I would
have never known before,
because I would have scared
the hell out of them.
I mean, everyone I
knew was just like me.
From the day that I met him,
everything began to change.
Like the things that I began
to question, the things
that I no longer
were willing to do,
the things that I learned to
do that I wouldn't have ever
learned.
I mean, he had a
tremendous impact on me,
and he still does.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I feel like, in dance,
I've learned how to listen
to my body more than I ever have
before and let it play and let
it teach me.
So as I look for
my path in life,
instead of looking outward
and trying to find someone
to give me the right
job or the perfect place
to put myself into
externally, I've turned inward
and allowed what was in
me to speak and to move.
I work in New York
City, and I have
a story about going
to Kauai, which
is an amazingly magical place.
And I was going,
actually, to break up
with my boyfriend
in Hawaii, which
is a terribly strange
thing to do but, actually,
a good place to do it.
We found ourselves on this
unbelievable mountain hike.
We hiked up into
the Waimea Valley.
It's actually the rainiest
place on the planet,
but for some reason, it
was clear and beautiful.
And when we got up to
the very tip of where
we had planned to
hike, we popped up
in this beautiful,
sweet poi, which
is a fruit that is
hard to describe.
But it's just sort of mushy,
sweet, heavenly wonder.
And I ate this fruit
there and walked back
along this very muddy, beautiful
pathway back to our car.
And as I was walking back
in just ecstatic state,
I told myself that I had to
do everything in my power
to protect the Earth's
beauty, because it was just so
astoundingly beautiful there.
And just as I said the
word beauty in my mind,
I slipped on the mud.
And it was then,
too, that I felt
like there was the
possibility of slipping up
at any moment in this task.
And I got back to the car.
My boyfriend was
in a terrible mood.
And I decided that
I hadn't had enough.
I couldn't yet say
goodbye to this landscape.
So I left him in the
car and ran back out
to the overlook, where we
could see where we had hiked.
And sure enough, as I
looked back along the ridge,
a rainbow had formed.
And it was ending right at
the spot where we had hike to.
So it was another
sign of, for me,
just to follow my own
dream, no matter what.
And now, I am
planning on finally
making that seed of a
dream come true and start
working in the communications
field environmentally,
so I can help tell the
stories of the planet
and the crises facing the
planet to the people who
can make a difference
and help protect
this beautiful, heavenly
planet we find ourselves on.
And I think that the analogy
of one's body and taking
care of one's body
is very much in line
with our need to take
care of the planet.
And that was sort
of what happened
when I slipped on the path.
It was, potentially,
a really scary slip.
I mean, it was a
big ridge, and I
could have tumbled down hundreds
of feet into the jungle.
It was in that moment, too, that
I had the sense that I needed
to take care of my physical
being in the same way
and respect and honor my
physical being in the same way
that I wanted to
honor the Earth's.
And that it was very much
metaphorical and connected.
So dancing my way into a
new way to serve the planet
is my task and my joy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]